[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
Everyone is born,
but not everyone
is born the same.
Some will grow
to be butchers or bakers
or candlestick makers.
Some will only be really good
at making Jell-O salad.
One way or another, though,
every human being is unique...
for better or for worse.
[GROANS]
Most parents believe
their children are
the most beautiful creatures
ever to grace the planet.
Others take
a less emotional approach.
What a waste of time.
And painful.
And expensive,
$9.25 for a bar of soap!
Well, I had to take
a shower, Harry.
$5000?
I'm not paying it.
What are they gonna do,
repossess the kid?
[CLATTERING]
[TIRES SCREECH]
There's no way out.
Make a U-turn.
Harry!
All right!
H-H-Harry!
BOY:
The Wormwood guy is back!
NARRATOR:
Harry and Zinnia Wormwood
lived in a very
nice neighborhood,
in a very nice house,
but they were not really
very nice people.
[CAR DOORS SLAMMING]
Get out of the street,
you little dodos!
NARRATOR:
The Wormwoods
were so wrapped up
in their own silly lives
that they barely noticed
they had a daughter.
Had they paid any attention
to her at all,
they'd have realized she was
a rather extraordinary child.
Oh, my gosh, Matilda!
Now look what you did!
They named her "Matilda."
You're supposed to eat
the spinach!
Ew! Ew, ew, ew, ew!
Ew, ew, ew, ew, ew!
Babies! You're better off
raising tomatoes!
NARRATOR:
By the time she was 2,
Matilda had learned
what most people learn
in their early 30s:
How to take care of herself.
As time went by,
she developed a sense of style.
Every morning,
Matilda's older brother,
Michael, went to school.
Bye, Mom.
Go on. Get out of here.
Her father went to work selling
used cars for unfair prices.
Make money!
And her mother
took off to play bingo.
Soup's on the stove.
Heat it up
if you get hungry.
Matilda was left alone.
[DOOR SLAMS]
That was how she liked it.
♪ On my way
On my way ♪
♪ On my way ♪
♪ I would like to
Reach out my hand ♪
♪ See you
Tell you to run ♪
♪ On my way
On my way ♪
♪ Well, pick me up
With golden hand ♪
♪ See you... ♪
NARRATOR:
By the time she was 4,
Matilda had read
every magazine in the house.
One night,
she got up her courage
and asked her father
for something
she desperately wanted.
A book? What do you
want a book for?
To read.
"To read"? Why would
you want to read
when you got the television set
sitting right in front of you?
There's nothing
you can get from a book
that you can't get
from a television faster.
Get out of
the way!
NARRATOR:
Matilda already knew
that she was somewhat
different from her family.
[BELCHES]
She saw that whatever
she needed in this world
she'd have to get herself.
Bye!
Ciao!
There's fish fingers
in the microwave.
NARRATOR:
The next morning,
after her parents left,
Matilda set off
in search of a book.
[TRAFFIC PASSING]
[BRAKES HISS]
Where are the children's
books, please?
In that room
right over there.
Would you like me
to pick you out one
with lots of pictures
in it?
No, thank you.
I'm sure I can manage.
NARRATOR:
From then on, every day,
as soon as her mother
went to bingo,
Matilda walked the 10 blocks
to the library
and devoured one book
after another.
[LAUGHTER CONTINUES]
NARRATOR:
When she finished
all the children's books,
she started wandering around
in search of something else.
Mrs. Phelps, who had been
watching her with fascination
for the past few weeks,
offered Matilda some
valuable library information.
[WHISPERING]
You know, you can have
your very own library card.
And then you could
take books home.
And you wouldn't have
to walk here every day.
You could take
as many as you like.
That would be
wonderful.
NARRATOR:
So Matilda's strong young mind
continued to grow,
nurtured by the voices
of all those authors
who had sent their books
out into the world
like ships onto the sea.
These books gave Matilda
a hopeful and comforting
message:
"You are not alone."
[CHILDREN LAUGHING
AND CHATTERING]
[DOOR OPENS]
Any packages come today?
Uh-uh.
Where'd all this
come from?
The library.
The library?!
You've never
set foot in a library.
You're only 4 years old.
Six and a half.
You're 4!
If you were 6 1/2,
you'd be in school already.
I want to be in school.
I told you I was supposed
to start school in September.
You wouldn't listen.
Get up! Get up!
Get out here.
Give that book.
Dearest pie,
how old is Matilda?
Four.
I'm 6 1/2, Mommy.
Five, then.
I was 6 in August.
You're a liar.
I want to go
to school.
[SNICKERS]
School.
That's out of the question.
Who would be here to sign
for the packages?
We can't leave valuable packages
sitting out on the doorstep.
HARRY:
Now, go watch TV
like a good kid.
You know,
sometimes I think
there's something wrong
with that girl.
Hmph. Tell me
about it.
Hey, dipface.
Have a marshmallow.
Have another marshmallow,
dipface!
Dipface!
[SNIFFLING, CRYING]
NARRATOR:
Sometimes Matilda
longed for a friend.
Someone like the kind,
courageous people in her books.
It occurred to her
that like talking dragons
and princesses
with hair long enough to climb,
such people might exist
only in storybooks.
But Matilda
was about to discover
that she could be
her own friend,
that she had a kind of strength
she wasn't even aware of.
I'm great!
I'm incredible!
Michael, pencil and paper
in the kitchen. Oh!
Did we sell some cars today,
honeydew?
Did we? Mwah!
Does that mean I can get
that new TV?
Yeah.
Son, one day you're gonna
have to earn your own living.
It's time you learned
the family business.
Sit down.
Write this down.
All right, the first car
your brilliant father sold
cost $320.
I sold it for $1,158.
The second one cost $512.
I sold it for $2,269.
Wait, Dad.
You're going too fast.
Just write.
The third cost $68.
I sold it for $999!
And the fourth cost $1100.
I sold it for
7839 big American boffos.
Oh, Harry!
What was my profit
for the day?
Could you repeat
the last one?
$10,265.
Check it if you
don't believe me.
You're a little cheat.
You saw the paper.
From all the way over here?
Are you being
smart with me?
If you're being smart
with me, young lady,
you're gonna be punished.
Punished for being smart?
For being a smart aleck.
When a person is bad,
that person has to be
taught a lesson.
"Person"?
Get up! Get up!
NARRATOR:
Harry Wormwood
had unintentionally
given his daughter
the first practical advice
she could use.
He meant to say,
"When a child is bad."
Instead, he said,
"When a person is bad."
And thereby introduced
the revolutionary idea
that children could
punish their parents.
Only when they deserved it,
of course.
[HARRY SNORING]
[TICKING]
[ALARM CLOCK RINGING]
[GROANING]
[HARRY MUTTERING]
[HARRY COUGHING]
Oh! Oh!
[GROANS]
[YAWNS AND COUGHS]
[GASPS]
[SIGHS]
Michael!
Come into my room!
What?
My boy, today's the day
I take you to the shop.
What do you say?
I don't know.
What do you say, Dad?
I say appearance
is nine-tenths of the law.
People don't buy a car.
They buy me,
which is why I personally take
such pride in my appearance.
Well-oiled hair,
clean shave, snappy suit.
Now, run along and get ready
for a big day of learning, kid.
Ha! It's gonna be
a big day of learning too.
There's a sucker
born every minute.
We're gonna take them
for all they got.
Give me
the cookies.
Here.
[HUMMING]
Okay, my boy,
heir to the throne.
Today we diddle the customer.
What's wrong with you?
What are you looking at?
Lovekins,
where's my breakfast?
Here we are, my heartstrings!
Aaah!
Snickerdoodle,
what did you do to your hair?
My hair?
Aaah!
[THUD]
[STIFLES LAUGHTER]
Give me those things.
Give me that.
Where are you going
with those?
Give me those.
Get in the car. Go on!
Get in.
NARRATOR:
Dirty dealings,
[CAMERA SHUTTER CLICKING]
like buying stolen car parts,
never stay secret for long,
especially when
the FBI gets involved.
[SHUTTER CLICKS]
9:17.
Suspect exits domicile.
I've got 9:18.
9:17 is correct.
[♪♪♪]
Michael, one day all this
will be yours.
This?
See this junker?
I paid $100 for her.
She's got 120,000 miles
on her.
Transmission's shot,
bumpers are falling off.
What do I do with her?
Hmm?
I sell her!
We really should
weld these bumpers on.
But that takes time,
equipment, money.
So we use Super Super Glue
instead.
Go ahead.
Put it on there.
Won't it fall off?
Definitely.
Isn't that
dangerous?
Not to me. Okay?
Transmission.
The sawdust
quiets the gears
and lets the engine
run as sweet as a nut
for a couple
of miles.
Daddy,
that's cheating.
Of course
it's cheating.
Nobody ever got rich
being honest.
Twenty years ago,
we could turn the numbers
back by hand. But--
Here. Take my hat.
But the feds
like to test
the ingenuity
of the American businessman.
Two-directional drill.
You run it backwards,
the numbers go down.
Watch the speedometer.
[DRILL WHIRRING]
MICHAEL:
Cool.
See?
Yeah.
Daddy, you're a crook.
What?
This is illegal.
Here. Keep drilling.
[WHIRRING CONTINUES]
Do you make money?
Do you have a job?
No, but don't people
need good cars?
Can't you sell
good cars, Dad?
Listen, you little wiseacre!
I'm smart, you're dumb.
I'm big, you're little.
I'm right, you're wrong.
And there's nothing
you can do about it.
[GRUNTS]
[HARRY CHUCKLES]
[WHIRRING CONTINUES]
HARRY:
Oh! Ah!
It's going
way down there.
[HORN HONKING]
Harry! I won! I won!
I hit the double bingo!
Aaah!
Come on, everybody.
I'm taking you all
to Café Le Ritz.
Let me see the money!
Never mind.
Double bingo, huh?
Ooh!
God, your hair
looks awful.
I hope they
let you in.
They'll let me in.
Here's your hat,
Daddy.
Get in the car!
Go on. Get in.
How much?
It's for me to know
and you to find out.
[BLOWS RASPBERRY]
It's nice to go out
sometimes, isn't it?
Yeah!
You never take us out.
Of course I do.
I took you to The Flipper.
I don't remember
any "The Flipper."
The fish joint.
You found that comb
in the bouillabaisse.
Oh, yeah.
I like that joint.
Bonjour.
This way, please.
Harry, take your hat off.
I can't.
This is a nice place.
You can't wear a hat inside.
I can't take it off.
Harry, nobody cares
what your hair looks like.
I can't get it off.
What's with this hat?
I can't--
[ZINNIA GRUNTS]
Just a minute.
I'm gonna yank this hat off.
Pull it!
I'm pulling it!
Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow!
Ow! Ow! Ow!
I think your head
swelled up really bad.
Aaah!
You're pulling the skin!
You're such a baby!
Stop it!
Fibers are fused
to the head!
"Fibers are fused."
What is that
supposed to mean?
Ow! Ow!
Give me the hat!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Ow! Ow!
Aah!
Oh!
Mmm!
I will not be
the figure of ridicule!
I want respect,
and I want it now!
[GROANS]
I still don't see how
you glued your hat on, Harry.
I mean, I know
you say you didn't,
but obviously you did.
I did not glue my hat
to my head!
The hat shrunk!
The fibers fused
to my hair! Ow!
Baby! Wait a minute.
I'm getting it now.
Ow! Ow! Ow!
I'm getting it.
One more.
[GROANS]
Oh, my God.
[LAUGHING]
[LAUGHS]
From now on, this family
does exactly what I say
when, exactly when,
I say it!
Here's your hat,
Harry.
Give me that.
And right now...
we are eating dinner
and watching TV.
Are you ready to get sticky
with Mickey?
[CHEERING]
Shut your light off.
MICKEY:
I'm just giving it away!
For those idiots out there
who don't know how to play,
here's how it goes.
For each correct answer,
they'll move one step closer
to our cube of cash!
Once in our cube of cash,
any money that sticks
to your gooey body,
you get to take home!
Hi, Dad.
Are you in this family?
Mmm...
Hello?!
Are you in this family?
Dinnertime
is family time!
What is this trash
you're reading?
It's not trash, Daddy.
It's lovely.
It's called Moby Dick
by Herman Melville.
Moby what?
This is filth!
Trash!
That's not mine!
It's a library book!
Trash! I'm fed up
with all this reading!
You're a Wormwood!
You start acting like one!
Sit up
and look at the TV!
MICKEY:
The producers are not liable
for skin irritation
that may result
from playing our game.
Get real sticky
and get cash for free.
All right,
that's enough.
Let's get sticky!
[APPLAUSE ON TV]
[HARRY LAUGHING]
[LAUGHING]
[APPLAUSE,
LAUGHTER CONTINUE]
[LAUGHING ECHOING]
[♪♪♪]
[SCREAMING]
I didn't do it.
Of course you didn't do it,
you little twit.
[GROANS]
Told you that
was a cheap set.
It's not a cheap set.
It's a stolen set.
[SPARKING]
Whoa!
Put your light on!
Bummer.
NARRATOR:
Was it magic or coincidence?
She didn't know.
It is said that we humans
use only a tiny portion
of our brains.
Matilda might never
have discovered
her own great
strength of mind
were it not for the events
that began
on the very next day.
WOMAN:
I need a car,
inexpensive but reliable.
Can you service me?
In a manner
of speaking, yes.
Welcome
to Wormwood Motors.
Harry Wormwood, owner,
founder, whatever.
Agatha Trunchbull, principal,
Crunchem Hall Elementary School.
[GROANS]
I warn you, sir.
I want a tight car,
because I run a tight ship.
Oh, yeah, huh?
Well, uh--
My school is
a model of discipline.
"Use the rod, beat the child."
That's my motto.
Terrific motto.
You have brats yourself?
Yeah, I got a boy, Mikey,
and one mistake, Matilda.
They're all mistakes,
children.
Filthy, nasty things.
Glad I never was one.
Uh-huh. Well, since
you're an educator,
I'm gonna make you
a great deal.
You had better.
Let's do business.
Thank you.
Enjoy it.
Hey, you!
You're going to school.
I am?!
First thing tomorrow.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Okay, okay.
You get a real education
at this place.
NARRATOR:
Matilda had always
wanted to go to school,
because she loved to learn.
She tried to imagine what
her new school would be like.
Go ahead.
She pictured a lovely building
surrounded by trees
and flowers and swings.
[CHILDREN CHATTERING]
Well, there was a building...
and children.
So regardless of what
Crunchem Hall looked like,
she was happy to be there.
Hey, wait up!
After all, any school
is better
than no school at all,
isn't it?
[CHILD SHRIEKS]
You, detention.
You're too small!
Grow up quicker!
Heads up. Shoulders back.
Stomachs in. Stand up straight.
Hey!
Sorry.
Detention
for you.
That's okay.
It's much better
than being out there.
Is that my teacher?
No. That's the principal,
Miss Trunchbull.
You've gotta
be kidding.
Uh-uh.
You squirts better skedaddle.
I'm not kidding.
The Trunchbull likes to snap
her whip in there
to see who's trying
to hide.
TRUNCHBULL:
Change those socks.
Too pink.
I'm Matilda.
Lavender.
I'm Hortensia.
Hi.
She doesn't really
hit children
with that riding crop,
does she?
No. It's mostly for scare.
What she does is worse.
Like yesterday,
in the second grade.
The Trunchbull makes a weekly
visit to every classroom
to show the teachers
a thing or two
about handling kids.
Julius Rottwinkle ate two
M&M's during her lesson.
MATILDA: And she caught him?
Of course.
[TRUNCHBULL GRUNTING]
[CLASS GASPING]
Aaah!
Was Julius okay?
After being thrown out
the window?
Of course he wasn't okay.
He lived,
if that's what you mean.
The Trunchbull used to be
in the Olympics.
Shot put, javelin,
hammer throw.
The hammer throw
is her specialty.
So she does this
all the time?
It's better than
being put in the chokey.
Chokey?
Yeah, the chokey.
It's a tall,
narrow hole
in a wall
behind a door.
You have to stand
in a drippy pipe
with jagged edges.
The walls have
broken glass
and nails
sticking out.
Get inside,
you festering ball of pus!
MATILDA:
She puts kids in there?
I've been in
twice.
Sometimes, she leaves you
in there all day.
But didn't you
tell your parents?
They didn't believe me.
I mean, would your parents
believe it?
Sixty lines after school:
"I must obey Miss Trunchbull."
No.
TRUNCHBULL:
Out of my way.
Here she comes.
Ahh! Fresh meat.
[WHIMPERS]
Amanda Thripp.
Yes, Miss Trunchbull?
What are those?
What's what,
Miss Trunchbull?
Hanging down
by your ears.
You mean my pigtails?
Are you a pig, Amanda?
No, Miss Trunchbull!
Do I allow pigs
in my school?
My mommy thinks
they're sweet.
Your mommy... is a twit!
You chop those off before
school tomorrow, or I will--
But...
"But"?!
I don't--
Did you say "but"?
Hammer throw.
What?
Definitely.
I'll give you "but"!
Whoa!
[AMANDA GROANS]
[GRUNTS]
GIRL:
Good loft.
BOY:
Excellent release.
[SCREAMING]
Think she'll
make the fence?
Gonna be a close one.
[SCREAMING]
[SHIVERING]
[CHEERING]
Quiet! Get to class before
I throw you all in the chokey.
Lavender,
what's my teacher like?
TRUNCHBULL:
Run, run, run!
Faster! Get in.
Quickly!
NARRATOR:
But Matilda's teacher,
Miss Honey,
was one of those
remarkable people
who appreciates every single
child for who she or he is.
I scooped these
up for you, Miss Honey.
Oh, how lovely.
Thank you, Amanda.
Okay, listen up,
everybody.
We have a new student
with us today.
This is Matilda Wormwood.
I'd like you to sit
over here with Lavender.
Now, you all remember how scary
your first days at school were,
so I'd like you to be
especially nice to Matilda
and make her feel welcome.
Could you get her workbook
for her, please?
Yes, Miss Honey.
You can sit down.
NARRATOR:
Miss Honey was
a wonderful teacher
and a friend to everyone.
But her life was not as simple
and beautiful as it seemed.
Miss Honey had
a deep, dark secret.
Though it caused her
great pain,
she did not let it interfere
with her teaching.
Well, Matilda,
you've come on a very good day,
because we're going
to review
everything that
we've learned so far.
Now, it's all right if you
don't understand any of this,
because you're brand-new.
But if you do know an answer,
just raise your hand, okay?
All right. We've been working
on our two-times tables.
Would anyone
like to demonstrate?
[CHATTERING]
Okay.
Let's do some together.
Two times four is?
CLASS:
Eight.
Two times six is?
Twelve.
Two times nine is?
Eighteen!
Excellent!
You've been practicing.
Pretty soon you'll be able
to do any multiplication,
whether it's
two times seven...
Fourteen!
Very good.
Or 13 times 379.
4,927.
I beg your pardon.
I think that's the answer.
13 times 379.
4-9-2-7.
It is.
Wow!
Matilda, you know how
to multiply big numbers?
I read this book last year
on mathematics at the library.
You like to read?
Oh, yes.
I love to read.
What do you like to read?
Everything.
But lately I've been
reading Darles Chickens.
Charles Dickens.
I could read him every day.
So could I.
All right, everyone.
Take out your workbooks
and let's start
with section three.
I'll be back in a moment.
TRUNCHBULL:
Yippee! Got you
right in the neck.
And you!
[CACKLING]
Yes!
Come in. Come in,
whoever you are.
Almost got you.
[CHUCKLES]
Good to see you, Jen.
Good, good, good.
Time for one of our
little heart-to-hearts?
[LAUGHS]
Actually, it's about the--
the new girl in my class,
Miss Trunchbull.
Matilda Wormwood?
Her father says
she's a real wart.
A what?
A carbuncle. A blister.
A festering pustule
of malignant ooze.
Oh, no. Matilda Wormwood
is a very sweet girl
and very bright.
A bright child?
Yes. She can multiply
large sums in her head.
So can a calculator.
Well, I-- I think
she might be happier
in an older
and more advanced class.
Ahh! I knew it. You can't
handle the little viper,
so you're trying
to foist her off
on one of the other teachers.
No, no, no,
Miss Trunchbull.
Yes! Typical
slothful cowardice!
Listen to me, Jen!
The distance
the shot put goes
depends upon the effort
you put into it!
Perspiration!
If you can't handle
the little brat,
I'll lock her in the chokey!
[GRUNTS]
Get it?
Yes, ma'am.
One day, Jen,
you'll see that everything I do
is for your own good...
and the good of those
putrescent little children!
[INDISTINCT POLICE RADIO
TRANSMISSION]
ZINNIA:
...get back at Tiffany.
Before.
When she was having that--
Mom! I'm home!
How was school?
The thing
with Valerie's brother.
School was great.
My teacher lets me
do sixth-grade work.
No. You're kidding.
Look, algebra
and geography.
Hold on. Can't you see
I'm in the middle
of an important
phone call?
You just asked me
how school was.
Quiet.
What else was
she supposed to do?
The baby wasn't his.
Well,
it was really great.
No way.
They gotta be implants.
The principal is insane.
She threw a girl
over the fence by her hair.
It would change
your life too
if you waxed yours,
I'm positive.
I have the most
wonderful teacher.
Mine are driving me crazy.
I'm telling you, six hours a day
at school is not enough.
I'll say.
[CROWD CHEERING
ON TELEVISION]
Whack to the belly!
A smack to the face.
Another smack to
the face. Burns is hurt!
He's on the ropes!
[DOORBELL RINGS]
Saved by the bell.
Packages
at this hour?
Come here.
What?
Okay.
[GRUNTS]
Hello.
We don't give money.
We don't like charities.
We don't buy raffle tickets.
M-- Mr. Wormwood.
I'm Jennifer Honey.
I'm Matilda's teacher.
What's she done now?
You!
Go to your room right now!
Right now! Beat it!
Look, whatever it is,
she's your problem now.
No, there is no problem.
Then beat it.
We're watching TV.
Mr. Wormwood,
if you think watching
some rotten TV show
is more important
than your daughter,
then maybe
you shouldn't be a parent.
Now, why don't you turn
that darn thing off
and listen to me.
[GROANS]
All right, come on in.
Get this over with.
Mrs. Wormwood's
not gonna like this.
Come on, get in.
[SIGHS]
Close the door.
Who is it?
Some teacher.
Says she's gotta talk
to you about Matilda.
[TURNS OFF TV]
[GRUNTING LIKE FIGHTER]
What'd you do that for?
He had Velasquez on the ropes.
What do you want?
I'm sure you're aware
by now
that Matilda
has a brilliant mind.
Yeah, right.
Mikey, give me a beer.
Her math skills
are simply extraordinary.
She's reading material
that I--
Want one?
Oh. No, thank you,
dear.
[SLURPING]
Material
that I didn't see
until my second year
of college.
Oh, college.
Great. College.
I really feel with
private instruction that,
that she'd be ready for college
in just a few short years.
Look, Miss Snit.
A girl does not get anywhere
by acting intelligent.
I mean, take a look
at you and me.
You chose books.
I chose looks.
I have a nice house,
a wonderful husband.
And you are slaving away
teaching snot-nosed children
their ABCs.
You want Matilda
to go to college?
[BOTH LAUGHING]
College?
I didn't go to college.
I don't know anybody
who did.
Bunch of hippies
and cesspool salesmen.
Oh!
Don't sneer at educated people,
Mr. Wormwood.
If you became ill,
heaven forbid,
your doctor
would be a college graduate.
[SCOFFS]
Or say you were sued
for selling a faulty car.
The lawyer who defended you
would've gone to college too.
What car?
Sued by who?
Who you been talking to?
Nobody.
Oh, dear, I can see we...
we're not going to agree,
are we?
No.
I'm sorry I burst in on you
like this. Sorry.
We ought to sue her
for interrupting our show.
Tell me about it.
[CROWD CHEERING ON TELEVISION]
HARRY:
Why's he standing
in the middle of the ring?
ZINNIA:
He's standing in the middle
of the ring because it's over.
[WHISPERING]
Thank you.
Tomorrow.
HARRY:
We missed it?
Great, it's over.
Who won?
How do I know?
You shut it off!
Was it my fault that
she came in the middle of
the fight?
TRUNCHBULL:
Hop to, hippity hop.
The entire school will go to
the assembly room immediately.
Sit!
[WHISPERING]
What's up?
Beats me.
Bruce Bogtrotter.
[CHILDREN GASP]
[CHATTERING]
Would little Brucey
come up here, please?
Uh-oh.
[SIGHS]
He lives on my block.
This boy,
Bruce Bogtrotter,
is none other
than a vicious sneak-thief.
You're a disgusting criminal,
aren't you?
I don't know what
you're talking about.
Cake.
Chocolate cake.
You slithered like a serpent
into the school kitchen
and ate
my personal snack!
Do you deny it?
Confess.
Well, it's hard for me
to remember a specific cake.
This one...
was mine,
and it was
the most scrumptious cake
in the entire world.
My mom's is better.
[GASPING]
It is, is it?
How can you be sure
unless you have another piece?
Sit down, Bog.
[GULPS]
[GASPING]
Here we go.
Smells chocolaty, eh?
Now, eat it!
I don't want any.
Thank you.
Eat it!
[WHISPERING]
Don't eat it.
BOY:
She wouldn't give him cake.
It's poison.
Something's up.
[WHISPERING]
Mmm. Mm-hmm. Yum.
Hmm.
You look like
you enjoyed that, Brucey.
[MUFFLED]
Yes, ma'am.
You must have some more.
[MOANS]
No, thanks.
But you'll hurt
Cook's feelings.
Huh?
Cookie.
[STUDENTS GASP]
She made this cake
just for you
to have
on your very own.
[CHILDREN CHATTERING]
Her sweat and blood
went into this cake,
and you will not
leave this platform
until you have consumed
the entire confection!
Entire confection!
See you at lunch.
Thank you, Cookie.
Rotten kids.
You wanted cake,
you got cake.
Now, eat it!
[GASPS]
[CHATTERING]
Hmm.
[GROANS]
Poor Brucey.
[MOANING]
[GROANS]
LAVENDER:
He's going to puke.
I can't look.
Is he going to puke?
Without a doubt.
[MURMURING]
Bruce looks real bad.
Give up?
[SINISTER CHUCKLE]
Hm?
[STUDENTS CHATTERING]
You can do it, Brucey!
[STUDENTS GASP]
You can do it, Bruce!
Yeah, you can do it!
Go, Bruce!
[CHEERING]
Bruce! Bruce! Bruce!
Yeah!
Silence!
[CHANTING CONTINUES]
Yes!
Yes! Yeah!
[CHANTING CONTINUES]
Silence!
[CHEERING]
Stop! Silence!
Stop!
[CHEERING]
Yeah!
[BELCHES]
[LAUGHTER]
TRUNCHBULL:
Shut up! The entire assembly
will stay five hours
after school and copy
from the dictionary!
Any children who object
will go straight
into the chokey together!
MAN [ON TV]:
I run rescue eight
out of station eight,
Los Angeles County.
And this was a Code R.
Code R's an official way of
saying we've caught a bad one.
A kind of accident
where death itself
holds a stopwatch on us.
Young lady,
where were you?
Miss Trunchbull
kept the whole school late
because this boy
ate some chocolate cake.
That's the biggest lie
I ever heard.
You see those packages
over there?
They were left out there
for the world to see
because you weren't here
to take them in.
I don't think it's fair,
bumpkins.
What?
You get all this stuff
from catalogs,
and I don't get anything.
It's not catalogs.
It's car parts, sweetness.
It's business.
Oh, if it's business,
why don't you have it
sent to the office?
Because the cops may be
watching the office.
The cops are watching
the house.
What?
They're parked outside
right now.
You are such an ignoramus!
Those are speedboat salesmen.
Really nice guys.
Cops.
HARRY:
Speedboats?
There are no lakes
around here!
Yeah, but some people
like to go away
on the weekends.
Some people have fun.
And some people
are cops.
They are not cops!
Are too.
They are not!
I ought to know if there's
cops watching my house!
Now go to bed,
you lying little earwig.
NARRATOR:
With the FBI
watching her father
and the Trunchbull
terrorizing her school,
it was a rare and happy moment
when Matilda could just
play with her friends.
A frog! A frog!
A frog!
What is it,
Lavender?
A frog!
LAVENDER: It's a salamander.
It's a chameleon.
It's a newt.
"Any of the small
semiaquatic salamanders
from the genus Triturus."
"Some are
brightly colored
and secrete
irritating substances."
[CAR APPROACHING]
[ENGINE RATTLING]
TRUNCHBULL:
How could you keep going,
you useless, flaming car?!
Wormwood!
Sell me a lemon?
You're heading for
the chokey, young lady!
Chokey?
Teach you a lesson.
What lesson?
You and your father think
you can make a fool out of me!
My father?
The guy with
the stupid haircut!
I'm nothing
like my father.
You're the spitting image.
[STEAM HISSING]
The apple never rots
far from the tree.
Miss Honey?
Miss Trunchbull teaches
our class today, Lavender.
Please get
a water pitcher.
But, Miss Honey!
Shh. No, quickly.
She'll be here any second.
Come on.
Oh, make sure
the water's cold, Lavender.
Vinny, cover the fish.
Put away the art projects.
Put away anything colorful.
Charley, won't you get
those crayons for me?
NARRATOR:
Most great ideas come from
hard work and careful planning.
Of course, once in a while,
they just jump out at you.
MISS HONEY:
Rayna. Rayna!
Cover the birds
and the beetles.
Hurry! I hear her coming.
Okay, now, last time,
some of you forgot yourselves.
Don't speak unless
you're spoken to.
Don't laugh. Don't smile.
Don't even breathe loudly.
[DOOR OPENS,
WHIP SNAPS]
TRUNCHBULL:
Don't breathe at all.
Good morning,
Miss Trunchbull.
CHILDREN:
Morning, Miss Trunchbull.
Sit!
Shoo.
I have never been able
to understand
why small children
are so disgusting.
They're the bane of my life.
They're like insects.
[MOUTHING WORDS]
They should be got rid of
as early as possible.
[HISSES]
My idea of a perfect school
is one in which
there are no children
at all.
[CHUCKLES]
Do you agree,
Miss Honey?
[INHALES DEEPLY]
Now...
You...
Front of the class!
[PANTING]
Are you okay?
TRUNCHBULL:
Next time I tell you
to empty your pockets,
you'll do it faster,
won't you?
BOY:
Yes, Miss Trunchbull.
Miss Honey?
This could be
the most interesting thing
you've ever done.
[THUD]
Sit down, you squirming
worm of vomit!
Thank you,
Miss Trunchbull.
Get up!
Can you spell?
Miss Honey taught us how
to spell a long word yesterday.
We can spell "difficulty."
You couldn't spell "difficulty"
if your life depended on it.
She taught us with a poem.
A poem, how sweet.
What poem would that be?
Mrs. D, Mrs. I
CHILDREN:
Mrs. F-F-I
Mrs. C, Mrs. U
Mrs. L-T-Y
[SMACK]
Why are all these women married?
"Mrs. D"? "Mrs. I"?
You're supposed to be
teaching spelling, not poetry!
I cannot for the life of me
understand why small children
take so long to grow up.
I think they do it deliberately
just to annoy me.
[CHATTERING, GIGGLING]
Shh-shh. Shh-shh.
[CHATTERING, GIGGLING STOP]
[GIGGLING]
What's funny?
Hmm? Come on.
Spit it out.
Speak up.
I like a joke
as well as the next fat person.
[STIFLED LAUGHTER]
Aah! It's a snake!
It's a snake!
Aah!
[GAGGING]
[PANTING]
One of you tried
to poison me. Who?
Oh. Matilda.
I knew it.
I just thought you'd like
to know it's not a snake.
It's a newt.
What did you say?
It's a newt, Miss Trunchbull.
Stand up, you villainous
sack of goat slime!
You did this!
No, Miss Trunchbull.
Did you act alone...
or did you have accomplices?
I didn't do it!
You didn't like
the chokey, did you?
Thought you'd pay me back,
didn't you?
Well, I'll pay you back,
young lady.
For what,
Miss Trunchbull?
For this newt,
you piss-worm!
I'm telling you,
I didn't do it!
[SCOFFS]
Besides, even if you didn't
do it, I'm gonna punish you,
because I'm big,
and you're small,
and I'm right,
and you're wrong,
and there's nothing
you can do about it.
You're a liar
and a scoundrel,
and your father's
a liar and a cheat!
You're the most corrupt lowlifes
in the history of civilization.
Am I wrong?
I'm never wrong.
In this classroom,
in this school,
I am god!
Aah!
[CHILDREN LAUGHING]
Get them off me!
You!
I didn't move.
You did this.
How could she
possibly have done it
when she was sitting
way over here?
I'll be watching you,
each and every one.
When you turn the corner,
when you go to your
little cubbies
to get your smelly
little coats,
when you skip merrily to lunch,
I'll be watching you,
all of you,
and especially you.
My. Oh, sweetheart,
let me see.
Thanks for not telling.
Best friends don't tell.
She can really dance.
I'm gonna clean up
this mess
and then I'll come and help you
fill the bird feeder, okay?
I'll be out there in a minute.
[SIGHS]
Miss Honey?
Yes, Matilda?
Miss Honey, I did it.
You did what?
I made the glass tip over.
Oh, sweetheart,
don't let Miss Trunchbull
make you feel that way.
Nobody did it.
It was an accident.
I did it with my eyes.
Watch.
I'll prove it to you.
It's wonderful
you feel so powerful.
Many people don't feel
powerful at all.
[WHISPERING]
Come on, tip over,
you glass.
Come on, glass,
tip over.
Come on, tip over.
Tip over, glass.
It's all right, Matilda.
[SIGHS]
I really did do it,
Miss Honey.
One of the odd things
about life
is sometimes
you can do something
until you wanna show someone,
and then you can't.
Or sometimes you think
something's broken
and you take it
to be fixed--
This isn't like that.
Oh.
I don't know.
Maybe I made myself tired.
Matilda, would you like
to come over to my house
this afternoon?
I'd like that very much,
Miss Honey.
Good.
MATILDA:
I just stare very hard,
and then my eyes get all hot
and I can feel
the strongness.
I feel like I can move
almost anything in the world.
You do believe me,
don't you?
Oh, I believe
that you should believe
in whatever power you think
you have inside of you.
Believe it
with all your heart.
That's where
Miss Trunchbull lives.
MATILDA:
Why is there a swing?
A girl I know
used to live in that house.
Her life was good
and happy.
When she was
just 2 years old,
her mother died.
Her father was a doctor,
and he needed someone
to look after things at home,
so he invited
the mother's stepsister
to come and live with them.
But the girl's aunt
was a mean person who treated
the girl very badly.
MATILDA:
The Trunchbull.
Yes.
And worst of all,
when the girl was 5,
her father died.
How did
her father die?
The police decided
he'd killed himself.
Why would he do
such a thing?
No one knows.
The end is happier.
She found a small cottage.
She rented it from
this lovely rhubarb farmer
for just 50 dollars
a month,
and she covered it
in honeysuckle,
and she planted hundreds
of wildflowers,
and she moved out
of her wicked aunt's house
and she finally got
her freedom.
Good for her.
Do you know why
I told you this?
No.
You were born into a family
that doesn't always
appreciate you.
But one day things
are gonna be very different.
Shall we go inside
and have tea and cookies?
Yes, please.
Okay.
This is the cottage
from your story.
Yes.
That young woman is you!
But then...
No.
Yes.
Aunt Trunchbull.
[SNIFFLES]
When I left my home,
Aunt Trunchbull's home,
I had to leave
all my treasures behind.
Treasures?
Photographs of
my mother and father.
And a beautiful doll
my mother gave me
with a china face.
Lissy Doll,
I called her.
Would you like
some milk?
Yes, please.
Why don't you
run away?
I've often
thought about it,
but I can't abandon
my children.
And if I couldn't teach,
I'd have nothing at all.
You're very brave,
Miss Honey.
Not as brave as you.
I thought grownups
weren't afraid of anything.
Quite the contrary.
All grownups get scared,
just like children.
I wonder what Miss Trunchbull
is afraid of.
There she is.
MATILDA:
Shot put.
MISS HONEY:
Hammer throw.
TOGETHER:
Javelin.
[MEOWING]
Back! Back! Back!
She's afraid of a cat?
Black cats.
She's very superstitious.
Go!
[IMITATES DOG BARKING]
Yaaaah!
[YOWLING]
MATILDA:
Poor kitty.
Oh, he's all right.
Hopefully.
[ENGINE SPUTTERING]
Let's go get
your treasures.
No, Matilda.
Well, she's gone!
Come on!
Ohh.
Matilda!
Miss Honey!
Ohh.
TRUNCHBULL:
Come on, move,
you piece of junkyard fodder!
Shift, you-- No--
[GRUNTING]
[GASPS]
[WHISPERS]
My house.
[GASPS]
Oh, my.
My father's portrait
used to hang there.
Whoever painted
the Trunchbull
must've had
a strong stomach.
A really strong stomach.
[GRUNTING]
Yaaah!
We should go.
Ohh. Father's
chocolate box.
After supper,
he'd take a chocolate,
cut it in half,
and he'd always give me
the bigger half.
When he died, Aunt Trunchbull
would count them,
so I couldn't even sneak one.
She'd take a chocolate,
bring it to her lips and say...
Much too good
for children.
Have one.
Oh, no.
She'd notice.
Where's Lissy Doll?
Upstairs.
Matilda!
Waaah!
Aaaah!
Matilda!
[TRUNCHBULL
MUTTERING ANGRILY]
[INDISTINCT SHOUTING]
You filthy...
...crush the little weasel!
This is my room.
That's my dad.
What's his name?
Magnus.
I used to call him
King Magnus.
And he called me
Bumblebee.
I don't think Magnus
killed himself.
Neither do I.
Is that Lissy Doll?
TRUNCHBULL:
Wormwood!
You useless
used-car salesman scum!
I want you around here now
with another car!
[PANTING QUIETLY]
Yes, I know what
"caveat emptor" means,
you lowlife liar!
I'm gonna sue you. I'm gonna
burn down your showroom!
I'm gonna take
that no-good jalopy
you sold me
and shove it up your bazooga!
When I'm finished with you,
you're gonna look like roadkill.
You what?!
Ohh, you--
[HANGS UP RECEIVER]
[SNORTS]
[SNIFFING]
[GASPS]
Come on.
Shouldn't we hide
or something?
Yeah, go to the end
of the hall,
down the stairs
and out the kitchen door.
I'll distract her.
Who's in my house?
Grrr!
Come out and fight
like a man!
[GASPS]
[THUD]
Aha!
[GROWLS QUIETLY]
Tallyho!
[GASPS]
[WHIMPERING QUIETLY]
[MUTTERING]
[CHEWING]
[SLAM]
[SNIFFING]
[GROWLS QUIETLY]
[FOOTSTEPS THUMPING]
[CLATTERING]
[GASPS]
Come on, come on.
[BOTH GASP]
[WHISPERING]
Come on. Over there.
Some rats
are gonna die today.
TRUNCHBULL:
Huh?
[GRUNTING]
[BOTH GASPING]
[GROWLING]
[MUTTERING]
Yaaaah!
[TRUNCHBULL SIGHS]
[GROWLING, YELLING]
[CONTINUES YELLING]
Oh, my goodness.
Feel my heart.
Weren't you the most scared
you've ever been
in your whole life?
Come on, let's go.
She shouldn't be allowed
to treat people like that.
Somebody's gotta
teach her a lesson.
I know.
We'll wait until
she leaves again,
then we'll go
get your doll.
What?
Just kidding.
Come here.
Matilda, promise me
you will never go back
in that house again.
I promise.
Okay. Come on.
[LAUGHING]
So he came home
with $2000 cash,
and he threw it up
in the air
and we both just swam in it
like we were on
The Million Dollar Sticky.
Do you like that show?
I love that show.
That was the old days.
Now we've got money in banks
all over this planet.
And does he
give me a dime?
Matilda!
This is Bob and Bill.
They're cops.
They are not cops.
They are Ace Powerboat
salesmen.
Baby face, I'm starved!
Hi, Harry.
Who are you?
What is this,
a hot-tub party?
Get the hell
out of here!
I slave all day,
I come home,
you're entertaining a couple
of surfer-dude bodybuilders!
They're cops, Dad.
You interested
in time-share?
Get out of here.
You don't let me
talk to people!
I am in a cage, Harry.
I need to talk to somebody
besides our stupid kids!
Oh, yeah? Well, a man
is entitled to come home
and find dinner
on the table
without having to wade through
a convention of male strippers!
Dad!
What do you want?
Yell at me, okay?
Shut up
and leave us alone!
Yell at me again!
Yell at you?!
I'll come in there
and pound your
miserable hide!
What do I have to do
to gain respect around here?
I'm gonna give you
a tanning like you never had!
My word is my law!
You understand? Law!
[POUNDING ON DOOR,
DOORKNOB RATTLING]
NARRATOR:
No kid likes
being yelled at,
but it was precisely
Harry's ranting and raving
that gave Matilda
the key to her power.
To unlock that power,
all she had to do
was practice.
HARRY:
You're a little cheat.
What are you, stupid?
I'm smart, you're dumb.
The apple never rots
far from the tree.
There is something wrong
with that girl.
I'm right, you're wrong!
Here's your book!
You're a Wormwood!
[ECHOING]
It's time you
started acting like one!
[RATTLING]
[CEREAL POURING
INTO BOWL]
[♪♪♪]
♪ Mmm-mmm-mmm
Mm-mmm-mmm, Mm-mmm ♪
♪ Little-bitty pretty one ♪
♪ Come on
And talk-a to me ♪
♪ Lovey-dovey lovey one ♪
♪ Come sit-a on-a
My knee ♪
♪ Ohh-oh-oh
Oh-ohh-ohh-oh-ohh ♪
oh-ohh-ohh-oh-ohh ♪
♪ Ohh-oh-oh
Oh-ohh-ohh-oh-ohh ♪
♪ Tell you a story
Happened long time ago ♪
♪ Little-bitty pretty one ♪
♪ I been a-watchin' you
Grow ♪
DISC JOCKEY:
That was one of my
personal favorites
played especially for all you
little-bitty pretty ones
movin' and groovin'
on this sunny afternoon.
Playing music
to make you smile,
so you'd better not
touch that d--
Shouldn't we have
a search warrant
to do this?
Nah. This guy's dirty.
Once we show
this tape in court,
Wormwood's goose is cooked.
I'm sure that box is full
of stolen car parts.
You been taping
all week.
How about letting me handle
that camera for a while?
You know
how to use it?
You know about the zoom
and the white balance?
You know how to
adjust the eyepiece?
I can handle it.
Besides,
it's my turn.
Yeah, your turn
to drop it.
I won't drop it.
Come on.
You two men
are gonna be
in a lot of trouble
very soon.
It's the female minor.
Aren't you supposed
to be in school,
young lady?
I really hope you have
a search warrant.
According to a constitutional
law book I read in the library,
if you don't have one,
you could lose your job
or even go to federal prison.
It's your father who's going
to federal prison.
And you know
where you'll end up?
In a federal orphanage.
You cooperate, we'll make sure
it's a nice orphanage.
The kind with food
and teeny-weeny cockroaches.
What do you say?
[BRAKE RELEASES]
There's another crime
in the making.
Your car is about to run
a stop sign.
NARRATOR:
So she bought a little time
for her dad
to come to his senses.
But now Matilda
had bigger fish to fry.
Much bigger.
[APPLAUSE OVER TELEVISION]
[BOTH LAUGHING]
[APPLAUSE CONTINUES]
Hey, dipface!
Where are you going?
Out.
[LAUGHTER CONTINUES]
Hey, dipface.
Have a carrot.
[MICHAEL COUGHING]
HARRY:
Chew your food!
You're an animal!
NARRATOR:
Having power
isn't nearly as important
as what you choose
to do with it.
And what Matilda had in mind
was nothing short of heroic.
[METAL SCRAPING]
Come here. Come on.
Lissy Doll, come on!
Come, Lissy!
Come on, doll, come on.
Please, come on. Come on.
Come on, Lissy.
Please come here.
Waah!
Yes!
[YELLS, GRUNTING]
[GRUNTING CONTINUES]
Ya!
[GRUNTS]
[CHIMING]
Aah!
[CLOCK CHIMING]
[ELECTRICITY BUZZING]
[BUZZING CONTINUES]
Leave me alone!
No!
Oh! Oh!
Aah!
[THUDDING NOISE]
Magnus!
[GASPS]
[CLOCK CHIMING]
[SCREAMS]
[CHIMING CONTINUES]
[WHIMPERING]
[SNIFFS]
[SINISTER CHUCKLE]
Miss Honey!
Miss Honey, you'll never
believe what I got you.
Oh, Matilda!
Matilda.
Oh, I also brought you this.
I ate mine last night.
[HISSING, SPUTTERING]
[ENGINE SPUTTERING,
COUGHING]
[ENGINE STOPS]
I will be teaching
your class today.
NARRATOR:
In the time it took Miss Honey
to get very, very nervous,
Matilda had formulated
a plan.
She is really raving mad.
What is it your father
used to call you?
Hummingbird?
Bumblebee.
I'm sure she knows
the doll's missing.
And he called her
Trunchbull?
No, I suppose
he called her Agatha.
Yes, that's--
She called him Magnus,
right?
Yeah. Yes.
Maybe I could go back
to the house
and put the doll back
while she's still at school.
No, I can't do that--
Calm down, Miss Honey,
really.
It's gonna be okay.
I promise.
Sweetheart, you promised
you wouldn't go back
in that house again.
I didn't.
I was on the garage roof.
I did it with my powers.
Okay, on the garage roof,
with your powers.
All right, I need to think.
Let's see.
[SIGHS]
[INHALES DEEPLY, SIGHS]
[GIGGLES]
Powers?
Mm-hmm.
[LAUGHING]
I think I've got them down.
Watch this.
[OBJECTS CLATTERING]
No more Miss Nice Girl.
TRUNCHBULL:
Inside! Get inside!
Quickly! Run!
Run, run, run!
Get against the wall!
Against that wall,
quickly!
Don't make me wait!
Water!
And hold the newt!
Join the ranks! Move!
I am here to teach you all
a lesson.
Sometimes in life,
horrible and unexplainable
things happen.
These things
are a test of character.
And I have character.
Form a line
across the room, quickly.
Run, run, run!
Don't keep me waiting!
Fill this gap!
I expect you're wondering
what I'm talking about, hmm?
Yes.
A child came to my house.
I don't know how.
I don't know when.
I don't know why.
Miss Trunchbull,
may I--?
No, you may not.
But I know a child came.
So did you know
it was illegal
to enter someone's home
without their permission?
TOGETHER:
Yes, Miss Trunchbull.
Sir.
Stand up straight!
Stomach in!
Shoulders back!
Do any of you
recognize...
this?
Hmm?
Let's play a game,
shall we?
Who was wearing
a pretty red...
hair ribbon yesterday
and isn't wearing one
today?
Can you answer me that?
Who does this disgusting
ribbon belong to?
[SPITS]
I shall personally
see to it
that the demented,
drooling,
slime-breathed,
little Lilliputian
who owns
this disgusting ribbon
will never see
the light of day again!
You!
Miss Trunchbull,
I was the one who was
at your house last night--
I broke your arm once before.
I can do it again, Jenny.
I am not 7 years old
anymore, Aunt Trunchbull!
[CHILDREN GASPING]
Shut your holes!
You will be put away
in a place
where not even the crows
can land their droppings
on you.
Look!
CHILDREN:
The chalk! The chalk!
The chalk!
And the blinds!
[CHILDREN CHATTERING]
"A."
CHILDREN:
"Ag...a...tha!"
[GASPING]
CHILDREN:
"This is Magnus.
"Give my little bumblebee
TRUNCHBULL:
Bumblebee?
CHILDREN:
"her house
"and her money.
Money?
"Then get out of town.
"If you don't,
I will get you.
"I will get you
like you got me.
That is a promise."
[TRUNCHBULL SCREAMING]
[SCREAMING]
[WHIMPERING]
[KIDS YELLING,
LAUGHING]
[BLUBBERING]
[TRUNCHBULL GROWLS]
[CHILDREN SCREAMING]
Aah!
Aaaaaah!
[SCREAMING]
No, no, no.
Miss Trunchbull,
please don't throw him!
[SCREAMING]
Yaah!
Whoo-hoo-hoo!
Whoo! Whoo!
Whoo-hoo!
Whoa!
Aaaah!
[CHILDREN YELLING,
LAUGHING]
[GRUMBLING]
[GASPING]
[MOANING]
[GROWLING]
CHILDREN:
Lavender!
Whoo!
[LAUGHING]
[GROANING]
GIRL:
It's the Trunch.
Wow!
Hey, you guys!
Look at this!
Yes!
Let go.
Ahh. Cool.
I didn't know
I could do that.
Pretty good, huh?
[CHILDREN SHOUTING]
TRUNCHBULL:
Aah!
[CHILDREN SCREAMING]
Yeah!
[♪♪♪]
NARRATOR:
And the Trunchbull was gone,
never to be seen
or heard from,
never to darken
a doorway again.
Miss Honey moved back
into her father's house.
MISS HONEY:
Teatime.
Of course, Matilda
was a frequent visitor.
Did you know that
the heart of a mouse
beats at the rate
of 650 times a minute?
My! Where'd you
learn that?
In a book.
It beats so fast
it doesn't sound
like it's beating.
It sounds
like it's humming.
MATILDA:
A porcupine's heart
beats 300 times a minute.
Quick! Quick!
Right.
ZINNIA:
Hey, you!
Hey!
We're leaving. Let's go.
Get in the car. Hurry up.
Let's wrap up these cookies.
Come on. We're leaving. Now!
I'd be happy
to walk her home.
Well, nobody'll be there.
We're moving to Guam.
Come on. Let's go.
Guam?
Yeah.
Daddy's not gonna be
in the oil business anymore.
I don't want to leave!
[SIRENS WAILING]
But we're going on
a permanent vacation!
Yeah, and we gotta beat
the speedboat salesmen
to the airport.
I love it here.
I love my school.
It isn't fair!
Miss Honey, please
don't let them take me!
Get in the car,
Melinda!
Matilda!
Whatever.
I want to stay
with Miss Honey.
Miss Honey
doesn't want you.
Why would she want some
snotty, disobedient kid?
Because she's a spectacularly
wonderful child,
and I love her.
Adopt me, Miss Honey!
You can adopt me!
Look, I don't have time
for all these legalities.
One second, Dad.
I have the adoption papers.
What?
Where'd you get those?
From a book in the library.
I've had them since
I was big enough to xerox.
Are you hearing
this, Harry?
[SIGHS]
All you have to do
is sign them.
I'll be
an only child again.
Shut up!
I-- I can't think
with all these sirens!
What do you think,
pumpkin?
Uh... You're the only
daughter I ever had, Matilda,
and I never understood you,
not one little bit.
Who's got a pen?
Here.
Thanks.
NARRATOR:
And doing perhaps
the first decent thing
they ever did
for their daughter,
the Wormwoods signed
the adoption papers.
And here.
Okay.
All right, come on.
Turn around.
You're not gonna be
calling us
for support payments
or something like that, huh?
Oh, no, we'll have
everything we need.
Don't worry.
All right, here.
Let's roll.
ZINNIA:
Ciao!
NARRATOR:
So Harry and Zinnia got away.
And as bad as things
were before,
that's how good they became.
Miss Honey was made principal
of Crunchem Hall,
which had to add
an upper school
because children
never wanted to leave.
And Matilda found,
to her great surprise,
that life could be fun,
and she decided to have
as much of it as possible.
After all,
she was a very smart kid.
♪ Well, I would like to
Hold my little hand ♪
♪ How we will run, we will
How we will crawl, we will ♪
♪ I would like to
Hold my little hand ♪
♪ How we will run, we will ♪
But the happiest part
of the story
is that Matilda
and Miss Honey
each got what they
had always wanted.
A loving family.
And Matilda never had
to use her powers again.
Well, I mean, almost never.
"Call me Ishmael.
"Some years ago,
"never mind how long
precisely,
"having little or no
money in my purse,
and nothing particular to..."
[♪♪♪]